for me the prospect of ethics relies on
there being some sort of a connection
between knowing and feeling I know that
leather harms animals destroys the
environment and so on and this changes
how I feel about it
now I had a conversation with a Chinese
woman here a few days ago last week and
she really had never thought about
before
what leather is made of or where it
comes from she had never thought that
buying leather entails killing animals
and you know at first her reaction like
you sort of don't know if the person is
joking and then you realize no sincerely
this person is is waking up to this
fundamental fact of their life for the
first time and they're recognizing that
something they've in the past only
looked at as a finished product as an
item presented to consumers has this
history behind it has these difficult
ethical questions about you know how its
produced and what it means about us is
people if we're going to pay for it but
leather with you look at it if you smell
it if you touch it in a store as a
finished product there's nothing
disgusting about it
there's nothing revolting about it but
what I know about leather can change how
I feel about leather I can feel revolted
to discover you know if I try something
on in a store and I don't realize it's
made of leather and then I check the
label some of you have had that that
experience that happens me more often
son like wool we need to try something
on you're looking at it and then you
only figure out that it has some hidden
non-speaking ingredients you may really
feel revolted you may feel disgusted
putting on leather yourself or when you
meet a friend and your friend is wearing
leather and so on but what I know
changes how I feel and that shapes my
conduct in my daily life in many many
different ways for me you know my
engagement with moral and ethical
problems it's not purely rational it's
not just a academic debating Club or
something it's part of how I feel and
how I feel really does shape what I do I
sat down once in a cafe with a young
woman who had just finished law school
she just started her career as a lawyer
and from the very first time she and I
met each other we only met twice from
the very first time we met each other
there was just a tremendous
history between us tremendous physical
attraction she talked to me a lot about
humanitarian work but at that time I was
really more involved in than I am now
I'm just a student learning Chinese blah
blah blah most you guys know talk about
humanitarian work some ethical issues in
history and politics about a lot of
things that are meaningful and important
to me in my life you know what what she
was choosing to talk about and we talked
a little bit about her experience in law
school and her starting you know to be
to be a lawyer now at the end of the
conversation what she said to me
directly and it's the only second time I
met up with her she directly
propositioned me she asked me if I was
going to come back to her hotel room
with her Oh
oh whatever she she invited me to come
back to her hotel room with her for
about three hours she specified amount
of time and you know the attraction was
very real and also in terms of raw
intelligence you know my respect for was
very real but I did not do that I did
not go with her and the reason for me
was very simple but it's it's part of
this element of how ethics and feeling
and so on really connects to the core of
my character late in the conversation I
then turned to her and asked we had just
been talking about something about
humanitarian work and helping the poor
and the downtrodden under you know
conversation that we covered many
different endings and turned to her and
I just said oh so you know in your legal
practice
are you planning to address you know
some of these issues are you engaged
with some of the things we've just been
talking about and I respect her honesty
but what she said to me was no she had
chosen to just go into corporate law and
she was just gonna do whatever paid the
most money when she said that to me when
she explained what her her current and
future career was to use a phrase that I
got from a from very memorable context
and in Buddhism you know I felt cold in
my bones it really chilled me to the
core and up to that point you know I
felt so attracted to her and so
interested in her and what have you
you know probably if she hadn't said
that to me or she had lied if she had
just told me that yeah she really cares
about helping the poor and downtrodden
she was engaged in some kind of
humanitarian work or at some some
pretensions or aspirations to make the
world a better place any kind probably I
would have gone to that hotel room with
her and who knows theoretically we could
still be in contact today theoretically
we could be married today I doubt it but
you know that that really chilled me in
the same sense that I was saying before
you know something like wool or leather
it doesn't look bad doesn't feel bad
doesn't smell bad as a finished product
but what you know about it changes how
you feel for me that was one of the most
stark turning points were just suddenly
what I know about someone changes how I
feel about them and as they say it
doesn't make me a nice guy it doesn't
make me a morally good person quite the
contrary
I really kind of identify openly as
someone who cares a great deal about
morality and ethics but I'm willing to
reflect in the fact that I don't conform
to a lot of the social expectations that
are placed on me neither here in China
nor in Cambodia nor in Canada but on the
other hand both on the level of feeling
and the level of rational thought about
the future I really care about ethics I
really you know I've been in the
position many times having to quit a job
or refuse a job before I was hired when
I was offered a job you know refused job
to start for ethical reasons and one
component of that is just thinking
through ethically what's right and
what's wrong
but another component that also is that
chill is the cold in my bones that I
felt the fact that I'm actually turned
off by in this case you know literally
turned off by a lot of these you know to
me immoral things when they're when
they're offered to me there have been a
lot of games played lately in pursuit of
Fame notoriety money a lot of drama
mongering going on within the vegan
scene and I mean you know to some extent
I just tolerate it and to some extent
also I think you know at least in the
beginning people felt that this was a
positive thing because the drama and the
scandal-mongering
was supposed to be indirectly and
eventually in pursuit of a larger goal
whether you call that saving the planet
or helping
animals are just promoting veganism
itself but the problem is why I'm making
this video right now on a practical
level I've got to tell you the type of
backstabbing the negative aspects of
this scandal-mongering behavior they
actually are having a negative impact on
my ability to organize real world
activism right now and they'll be having
a negative impact on numerous other
people who are not gonna make youtube
videos talking about it they're creating
an atmosphere of hostility and distrust
that's counterproductive not long-term
very visibly already I proposed being
really me and Jason Posey know together
started discussing an event that we
wanted to organize in Thailand in
December now is this activism in the
strictest sense no but it's the first
steps towards having real meaningful
activism emerge from this mess of you
know discordant and dissonant
personalities that are brought together
by vegan YouTube and a lot of people
were really excited about the idea so
the idea was in its final form was to
have an event in Thailand this December
probably going up to and including New
Year's Eve because many of the people in
volts it that was really when they
wanted to go be after Christmas in the
days leading up to New Year's Eve and
then celebrate New Year's Eve in
Thailand and you know it was not gonna
be based on lectures it was not going to
based on an academic conference it was
going to give people the opportunity to
see some elephants see some monkeys
possibly visit you know Conservation
Park for indeed
turtles we're going to try to put
together a couple of hands-on meaningful
experiences like that but otherwise the
only events would be to meet other
vegans
the type of the type of
scandal-mongering and backstab me just
mean-spirited crude damage that's being
done within veganism right now it
results in something that could be open
and happy and positive and inviting in
strangers instead becomes closed it's
too bad I still think we've got a lot of
potential I still think we've got a lot
of talented people we're trying to make
something positive happen short term and
long term and the ultimate tragedy of
this is that short-term thinking tends
to resemble evil if you're only thinking
short term about your next video but
your next 5,000 viewers about your next
5,000 subscribers that's going to
prevent you from even thinking as
long-term as this December let's
organize an event in Thailand let's meet
each other and it's definitely going to
prevent you from thinking about in the
next five years the next 10 years who
can I cooperate with who can be my
colleague who can really contribute in a
meaningful way to this whole saving the
planet thing that on some level all of
us are committed to people like to
disrespect my truth but the fact is that
you know my name is I don't know